docs/setup_maintenance.rst, before:

=====================
Setup and Maintenance
=====================

Misago is Python and Django application which means system requirements as well as setup process and way maintenace taks are performed may appear confusing and suprising to administrators that have no experience outside of running PHP solutions.


Installing Misago
=================

Misago installation is three step process. First you compare your server's specification to check if will be able to run Misago. Next you setup Misago and all extra services required for it to function like e-mails, database and automatic maintenance jobs. Finally you get your site running and accessible for your users.


Requirements
------------

Before you start make sure your hosting provider grants you:

- SSH access to server
- Python **2.7** (this is important, Python version 3 and older than 2.7 are not supported) and PIP
- Either MySQL or PostgreSQL database
- 60 megabytes of RAM for Misago process
- A way to direct HTTP traffic from your domain to Misago
- CronTabs or other task scheduler

This is not a problem on VPS or dedicated servers, but availability of shared servers that meet those requirements differs from country to country.

Speaking of shared servers, ability to download, compile and run software from internet may be needed, but different ISP's have different approach to this. Some options come with all dependencies preinstalled, others let you install them yourself and others require you to mail them every time you need something installed. Generally you should avoid offers coming from last group because this turns running Python apps into a hore.


Setup
-----



Deployment
----------

Deployment is a process in which you get your site running and reachable by your users.

Misago is de facto Django with extra features added. This means deployment of Misago should be largery same to deployment of other Django-based solutions. Django documentation `already covers <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/howto/deployment/>`_ supported deployment methods, and while on dedicated and VPS options deployment method depends largery on your choice and employed software stack, shared servers may differ greatly by the way how Django should be deployed. If thats the case, make sure you consult your ISP documentation and/or ask its rep for details about supported deployment method.

.. note::
   If you are deploying Misago on your own dedicated or virtual server, you may want to take interest in `the Gunicorn <http://gunicorn.org/>`_ that makes it easier to maintain Python deployments.


Updating to new version
=======================

Lorem ipsum dolor met.


Growing up with your community
==============================

Lorem ipsum dolor met.

Commit message:

Some setup stuff in readme and manual.

docs/setup_maintenance.rst, after:

=====================
Setup and Maintenance
=====================

Misago is Python and Django application which means system requirements as well as setup process and way maintenace taks are performed may appear confusing and suprising to administrators that have no experience outside of running PHP solutions.


Installing Misago
=================

Misago installation is three step process. First you compare your server's specification to check if will be able to run Misago. Next you setup Misago and all extra services required for it to function like e-mails, database and automatic maintenance jobs. Finally you get your site running and accessible for your users.


Requirements
------------

Before you start make sure your hosting provider grants you:

- SSH access to server
- Python **2.7** (this is important, Python version 3 and older than 2.7 are not supported) and PIP
- Either MySQL or PostgreSQL database
- 60 megabytes of RAM for Misago process
- A way to direct HTTP traffic from your domain to Misago
- CronTabs or other task scheduler

This is not a problem on VPS or dedicated servers, but availability of shared servers that meet those requirements differs from country to country.

Speaking of shared servers, ability to download, compile and run software from internet may be needed, but different ISP's have different approach to this. Some options come with all dependencies preinstalled, others let you install them yourself and others require you to mail them every time you need something installed. Generally you should avoid offers coming from last group because this turns running Python apps into a hore.


Setup
-----

To install Misago setup and activate virtual environment for your site and then fire following command::

    python setup.py install

This will install Misago in your virtual environment and make "misago-start.py" script available for you to use to create pre-configured Misago site.

Now decide on your site's "name". This name will be used for python module that will contain your configuration files. This means it should be only latin lowercase letters and (optionally) digits and underscore sign ("_"). Good idea is to use your domain name as source for project namespace, for example turning "misago-forum.org" into "misagoforumorg".

Once you've decided on your name, create your site configuration module. In example we assume your site will be named "misagoforumorg"::

	misago-start.py misagoforumorg

This will create directory "misagoforumorg" in your working directory. Inside you will find "manage.py" file that you can use to run administrative commands Misago provides as well as access its python shell which is usefull for quick and dirty administration work. In addition to this file you will find "cron.txt" that contains example crontab configuration for automating maintenance tasks on your site and "requirements.txt" that you can use as reference of versions of libraries Misago relies on to run. In addition to those, you will find one more "misagoforumorg" here, containing python module with configuration files for your site. We will get to it in a minute, but before that lets spend few more moments in our current location.

This directory has special purpose. It serves as "container" for your customizations for Misago. If you want to install extension or plugin that has no "setup.py" of its own or use custom styles or templates on your site, you will put them there, making them easily accessible for your Misago installation.

Now let's go deeper, into "misagoforumorg". By default this directory will contain four files: "__init__.py", thats special file that tells python this directory is python package, "settings.py" that contains all low-level settings of your site, "urls.py" that tells your forum about links on your site and finally "wsgi.py", thats special file servers use to understand and talk with your application. Unless you are building entire site around your forum, you can ignore "urls.py".

Now open "settings.py" in your code editor of choice and give a look in values listed here. Each value is accompanied by commentary explaining its purpose. See if any tuning is needed, then save your changes and leave editor.

Now move back to directory with manage.py and fire "runserver" command on it::

    python manage.py runserver

If server starts, you should be able to visit 127.0.0.1:8000 in your browser and see simple placeholder response from Misago, however as work on project is underway revisions may frequently introduce changes that will break runserver.


Deployment
----------

Deployment is a process in which you get your site running and reachable by your users.

Misago is de facto Django with extra features added. This means deployment of Misago should be largery same to deployment of other Django-based solutions. Django documentation `already covers <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.6/howto/deployment/>`_ supported deployment methods, and while on dedicated and VPS options deployment method depends largery on your choice and employed software stack, shared servers may differ greatly by the way how Django should be deployed. If thats the case, make sure you consult your ISP documentation and/or ask its rep for details about supported deployment method.

.. note::
   If you are deploying Misago on your own dedicated or virtual server, you may want to take interest in `the Gunicorn <http://gunicorn.org/>`_ that makes it easier to maintain Python deployments.


Updating to new version
=======================

Lorem ipsum dolor met.


Growing up with your community
==============================

Lorem ipsum dolor met.
